Norms
When there is a disagreement…
What to do when someones frustrated
What does this group do when we merge our work together?
When does this group ask for help?
How do we pair? What do we do when two group members pair with each other?
How does this group approach after hours?
Daily Stand up XXXX


OUR AMAZING CAPSTONE PROJECT
*This document describes our team social contract for this project*
Reference Establishing Norms
Roles
Taskmaster
Testmaster
Daily process
Daily stand-up at 10:45AM
Switch roles every day.
Start pair-programming + working together.
Keep zoom channel open throughout the day (unless otherwise discussed)
2:30 check in
Check-in after lunch, chat about blockers, status updates, and our current plans for the afternoon.
Incorporate Pull Requests as they arise - work through them with the team. 
Pull Party at the EOD to merge everyone’s master.
Checkouts between 5:30 and 6 - communicate clearly about plans and expectations for the rest of the evening 
Team expectations
Bring up any blocking issues after 15 minutes of spinning your wheels
Take care of ourselves and each other
Talk to each other
Have fun
If things pivot, communicate with the group/taskmaster - both to avoid duplicating efforts and making sure everyone has the opportunity to work on desired skills
Share responsibilities on the MVP (ie cart on Grace Shopper project) - alternate in two day cycles to pass off knowledge and responsibility to new team member
If you have a blocking issue, slack or wave before interrupting another’s train of coding-thought - communicate to break off if necessary or tackle together
None of us will specialize in terms of front-end and back-end code
Assign vertical slices so we can work from back-end to front-end
Talk it out -- don’t be afraid to bring up any issues we may have and talk it out.
At least message the group when you change what you are working on
When at least two members of the group have been brought in on a problem that still cannot be solved, submit help ticket 
Pair program for related slices
Issues
If the group is divided on a certain decision we will take the following steps:
Take 10-15 minute break
List out the pros / cons
Vote on it
If the vote is split, escalate to a fellow or instructor
If you are frustrated
Take a walk or get some water
Talk constructively about actionable items (e.g. raise your hand instead of interrupting, let me learn and struggle until I ask you for help, etc.)
NO PASSIVE AGGRESSION
(Bring in a 3rd party (e.g. fellow, instructor) to mediate if you feel too frustrate)

